This EISCAT-VHF-LIDAR-dataset contains the data files used to generate the figures in the manuscript 'D-region ion-neutral collision frequency observed by incoherent scatter spectral width combined with LIDAR measurements.' The dataset includes the fitted spectral and plasma parameters obtained from EISCAT-VHF measurements, the LIDAR neutral temperature measurements, and the SIC model results of ion compositions and MSIS neutral densities. The descriptions of the files are given below.

Data Set 1 (DS1). This data file contains the fitted EISCAT-VHF spectral parameters along with the LIDAR neutral temperature measurements used. This dataset is used in the generation of Figure 1.

Data Set 2 (DS2). This data file contains the SIC model results of the altitude profiles of the mean ion mass (mi) in a.m.u, negative ion to electron density ratio (λ), and MSIS densities of neutral species N2, O2, O in m−3. The average altitude profile of mean ion mass is presented in Figure 2. The mean ion mass and the neutral densities, N2, O2, O are used in the calculation of model ion-neutral collision frequency (see equation 3 of the manuscript).

Data Set 3 (DS3). This data file contains the fitted ion-neutral collision frequency obtained from EISCAT-VHF spectral width and LIDAR neutral temperature measurements, along with the model ion-neutral collision frequency estimated using equation 3 of the manuscript. The ratio of fitted to model ion-neutral collision frequency and the estimated correction factor are included. This dataset is used in the generation of Figure 3.
Data Set 4 (DS4). This data file contains the fitted neutral temperature measurements obtained from EISCAT-VHF data with and without applying the correction factor to model ion-neutral collision frequency. LIDAR neutral temperature measurements are also included for comparison. This dataset is used in the generation of Figure 4.

Figure 5 of the manuscript is generated using the data in the files DS1 and DS2 and is, therefore, not included separately.
